# App Router: Building Your Application | Next.js

<p>MenuUsing App RouterFeatures available in /appUsing Latest Version15.1.6Using App RouterFeatures available in /appUsing Latest Version15.1.6IntroductionApp RouterBuilding Your ApplicationBuilding Your Application
Next.js provides the building blocks to create flexible, full-stack web applications. The guides in Building Your Application explain how to use these features and how to customize your application's behavior.
The sections and pages are organized sequentially, from basic to advanced, so you can follow them step-by-step when building your Next.js application. However, you can read them in any order or skip to the pages that apply to your use case.
If you're new to Next.js, we recommend starting with the Routing, Rendering, Data Fetching and Styling sections, as they introduce the fundamental Next.js and web concepts to help you get started. Then, you can dive deeper into the other sections such as Optimizing and Configuring. Finally, once you're ready, checkout the Deploying and Upgrading sections.
RoutingLearn the fundamentals of routing for front-end applications.Data FetchingLearn how to fetch, cache, revalidate, and mutate data with Next.js.RenderingLearn the differences between Next.js rendering environments, strategies, and runtimes.CachingAn overview of caching mechanisms in Next.js.StylingLearn the different ways you can style your Next.js application.OptimizingOptimize your Next.js application for best performance and user experience.ConfiguringLearn how to configure your Next.js application.TestingLearn how to set up Next.js with four commonly used testing tools — Cypress, Playwright, Vitest, and Jest.AuthenticationLearn how to implement authentication in your Next.js application.DeployingLearn how to deploy your Next.js app to production, either managed or self-hosted.UpgradingLearn how to upgrade to the latest versions of Next.js.Was this helpful?</p>
<p>supported.Send</p>
